# Specific Advice for Undergraduates in the Lab

As an undergraduate in my lab, I know you have lots of other responsibilities and need to do well in your classes. So I understand the amount of time and effort you can commit will have fluctuations, and I just expect that you keep me informed about that. 

Do block out specific times for research, especially getting started, because there's a lot to learn at the beginning and it can be tough. You need to push ahead, learning as much as you can, and get through the tough part to get to the fun and interesting part where you begin to accomplish new and exciting things. Remember it's coming and don't give up before you get there! Normally undergrads joining the lab spend some time just learning linux, Python, and vi, before moving to a real research project. This typically takes a substantial amount of time, so stick with it. 

I normally try to pick undergraduate projects where I already know very well what procedure needs to be followed, and the outcome is interesting. This is for a couple reasons. First, it means that you can definitely complete them, since the procedure is known and the outcome will be interesting. This is good for helping you have some publications, and helps me make sure your effort achieves something which helps the group. However, other projects are also possible. If there's a project you have in mind which particularly interests you and which you think we can accomplish with the tools we have, I'm certainly open to discuss it.

Do remember that Google is your friend, and that for things like Python, linux, and vi, or even for info on how to use various software tools, you can easily Google for most of the information you might need. But also remember that others in the lab can help a great deal. Remember that people in the lab have their own projects and are busy, but often they will also be glad to help you get started or give you advice on solving your specific problem. ﻿
